are you getting overwhelmed with your
seo reports and all the tools there's so
many out there
well don't worry you're not alone hey
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
going to break down the only features
you need to use in seo tools
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel if you're on
youtube click the alert notification
don't get bogged down by reports and
features and tools that do very little
to actually get you more rankings
i'm going to break down four main
features and reports
that you need to rank higher and here's
best of all you can do pretty much all
of this in uber suggests you can find
neilpatel.com
uber suggester just go to ubersis.com
and you could do literally most of this
stuff for free and uber suggests that's
what's great so in essence we'll go down
the four main features you need to use
and how you can do it for free
so let's dive right in number one rank
tracking
look
on google
if you don't know what your rankings are
if they're going up or if they're going
down or how things are improving or
declining how are you going to improve
those things are really important right
because here's the thing with seo it's a
long game youtube seo is very different
you can get results within a day or two
believe it or not even if you have no
subscribers in a brand new youtube
channel
but google seo is the opposite a lot of
times it can take three months six
months even a year plus to see results
but do you want to invest blindly into
seo of course not you want to see are
you getting results ideally within a few
months even if your traffic's not going
up and that's what rank tracking does
it'll tell you if you're on page 10
or page
9 of google or even page 6 and you know
this better than anyone else when you do
a google search are you really going to
page six seven eight ten
no not really you're going page one
maybe page two but you usually stop at
page one or two and if you can't find
what you're looking for usually do a
different search
but
even though you're on page 10 and then
you move to page 8 you won't really see
a traffic increase but that's progress
and rain tracking shows you that and it
can track your rankings on a daily basis
and a weekly basis whatever you prefer
and you can even track your rankings on
mobile devices and desktop you can do
that all in uber says for free and
what's cool about that is that way you
can see how you're performing on
different device types and it tells you
when you're doing seo what's working and
what isn't because there's so many
different factors in seo you want to
double down on your wins and avoid doing
the things that aren't doing as well for
you
on top of that you can also use google
search console google search console
allows you to see all the keywords that
you're ranking for for your content
because here's the thing when you're
doing seo and you write blog articles
you have product pages you're optimizing
for some keywords but a lot of times you
start ranking for these long tail
keywords that are very popular such as
how to get more instagram followers that
you would have never thought that could
drive a lot of traffic because there's
so many words in that query but it can
and then you can add that to your rank
tracking list within ubersuggest and you
can start optimizing for those terms as
well
the second thing that you need to look
at with these seo tools is competitive
analysis competitive analysis tells you
what your competitors are doing and
what's working for them
look you don't want to recreate the
wheel you want to do what's working for
others and just do it better why start
from scratch and there's no need seo has
been around for so long these days you
can just replicate what's working for
your competitors and add a little bit of
that special touch so that way you can
beat them
so with the competitive analysis on
ubersuggest you can type in any
competitor url and you can look at top
pages top pages shows you the most
popular articles or pages on your
competitor's site and what's cool is you
can see the keywords by clicking on the
keywords button you'll see all the
keywords that that page ranks for and
that'll tell you hey should i also
create a page that's very similar well
if i do now i know what keywords to go
after because it's related to my
business and it can also drive me sales
and another cool feature is you can also
see all the backlinks that are driven to
that page right all the other sites that
are linking to your competitors page
because here's the thing if someone
wants to link to your competitor they're
probably willing to link to you too so
now you got a list of links going to
your competitors so you can create a
better page of them that's more thorough
go after all their keywords and you can
also hit up all the people linking to
them and ask them to link to you too
the other cool thing that i like about
the competitive analysis report on uber
suggests you can see how much traffic
competitors getting if they're getting
more traffic month over month or less
traffic month over month because
google's doing so many updates if you
get hit by a major update you can see if
your competitors are getting hit by
major updates you can also see
all the keywords that your competitors
are ranking for as well there's a list
you can either do it by top pages or you
can just see a list of all the keywords
and you can see the most popular
keywords in order so now you know what
keywords you can potentially focus on
now when you're looking at your
competitor's keywords i would also look
at the cpc which uber says shows you
that stands for cost per click
even though the ranking for these
keywords organically
if they have a high cost per click that
means people are willing to spend a lot
of money on the ad portion and that
means those keywords probably convert
really well and those are ones that you
should go after if it's related to your
business
the third report that you need to look
at and feature within these seo tools is
keyword ideas now the keyword ideas
report uber says gives you all these
ideas that you can go after in other
words it shows you what people are
searching for whenever you type in a
keyword and it'll show you what keywords
people aren't searching for sometimes i
think keywords are going to be so
popular i type them in and i'm like huh
only a hundred searches a month i'm glad
i didn't go after it because if only a
hundred people are searching for that
keyword a month
you know it doesn't mean you're gonna
get a hundred visits being at the top
you'll only get a fraction of those
visits so you wanna go after popular
keywords and what's cool about the uber
says keyword ideas report you can
actually filter based on any region such
as united states or canada or uk or
india or brazil or even you know south
korea but here's what's also really cool
you can then
put in cities like seoul south korea or
you can put in new york new york or you
can look at it on a state level and this
will tell you
all the keywords that are popular within
a region in case you have a local
business and within the keyword ideas
report in uber says there's also a
content ideas report where i'll show you
all the content that you can write about
that are related to those keywords so
you can see what's popular on facebook
was popular on pinterest was popular
from a backlinks perspective and was
even popular from an organic seo
perspective the last factor and this is
number four
is backlinks
if you don't get people linking to you
you're not going to do well backlinks
are like votes you know during a
presidential election the more people
that vote for a candidate the more
likely they are to win
now you know i know different countries
have different voting systems and
there's more to it but just generally
speaking the more votes someone has the
more likely they are to win for a
presidency
the same thing is with google but
instead of a vote they look at a link
like if i link to you that's a vote in
confidence saying hey neil's linking to
you or john's linking to your new york
times is linking to you but they also
have other factors like the quality of
those votes or backlinks
a link from new york times is way better
than a link from neil patel a link from
cnn is way better than a link from neil
patel so you want to get ideally bigger
sites linking to you and more relevant
sites and you can use the backlinks
report within ubersuggest and what's
cool is they have a backing to
opportunity report more specifically
where you can put in your url and then
your competitor urls and it'll show you
all the people that link to your
competitors but don't link to you
because if someone links to not just one
but two three four of your competitors
and they don't link to you the chances
are they don't mind linking to other
people in your space because they're
already linked to lots of your
competitors
now if you need help with any of these
factors or just your seo check out my ad
agency np digital where we help people
grow their traffic and get the results
for them if you have any questions you
can always leave a comment below and i'm
here to help if you enjoy the video like
it share it thank you for watching